---
   breadcrumb:
   -
      text: "Blog"
      link: "/en/blog"
   -             
      text: "My first 5k"
      link: "/en/blog/my-first-5k"
   categories: [fitness, personal]
   cover_url: "my-first-5k.jpg"
   date: 2020-02-16
   description: My first amateur race
   lang: en
   layout: article
   permalink: /en/blog/my-first-5k
   title: My first 5k
---

[last-training]: /cdn/images/5k/last-training.jpg "Last training"
[run-pace]: /cdn/images/5k/run-pace.png "Average run pace"
[run-start]: /cdn/images/5k/run-start.jpg "Arrive at race event"
[run-finish]: /cdn/images/5k/run-finish.jpg "Finish line with the medal"
[final-results]: /cdn/images/5k/final-results.png "Final results"

Some time ago, I discovered the [Impossible Blog](https://impossiblehq.com/blog/){:*target*="_blank"} and get motivated to do an ["impossible list"](/impossible-list) with the main goal to get out my confort zone and acomplish some things that i want to do, but haven't the necessary motivation.

One of then was run a marathon! So, inspired by Joel Runyon stories, and after watch a run from a close friend, i felt that was be a good starting point of this journey.

## Training

With the goal in mind, the next step was be prepared. I've been going to the gym for a few years, between comings and goings, so my physical shape is not too bad (weight around 80kgs, with 1.82m), so I believed it wouldn't be too difficult, but I couldn't be more wrong. As I only focus on weight lifting, my cardiovascular capacity was not much better than that of a sedentary hahaha.

I started training on the treadmill, with a smartphone app called [C10k](https://www.zenlabsfitness.com/){:*target*="_blank"}, which will help you progress from 0 to 5 KM or 10KM with 3 weekly workouts. In the beginning, I trained only on Saturdays and Sundays, but I started to wake up earlier to get the 3 weekly trainings.


After a few months of training, I managed to run 28 consecutive minutes, approximately 4.4 KM, which gave me confidence that I would finish the 5K race.

![last-training]

## Race day

The race was scheduled to start at 7:00 am, so I woke up at 5:00 am, had a meal and drive for the race location. I arrived at the place around 06:30 am, after leaving my belongings in the luggage room, we started a collective stretching, I confess that I only did half because I wanted to save my energy for the run itself, hehehe. Almost finished the stretching, the staff responsible for the narration of the race, warns: "don't forget to get the race chip!". Oh god, the damn chip. I confess that at that moment I didn't even know what that chip was, but thank you very much for reminding me, Mr. Narrator. I get the chip and seeing other runners put their chips on the laces of the sneakers, I did the same.

![run-start]

## Start and the run

A few minutes before the start of the race, I go ahead to start line, with the others competitors. When the countdown started, I turned on my Mi Band on exercise mode, just like the runtastic and put a podcast in my ears. Ready for the race, here we go!

At my preparation, i made only trainings alone, in treadmill, so running with a lot of people around me, it was a really cool experience. The race become itself  less monotonous, because you have some things to distract you, and you have a better sense of how your pace is comparated to the others and running on flat asphalt it was very good.

When running I constantly remembered just two things: keeping my shoulders and arms relaxed and not be eager to start. So, i started at a very easy pace in the first kilometer of the track, after all, I still didn't know how much difficult will be running on the street.

Until the first km sign I made a pace of approximately 06:28 and passed that point, everything was going well: my feet didn't hurt, I wasn't panting, the rain was quiet, and there was no pain in any part of my legs or knees. So I slightly increased the pace, towards the 2KM board, at a pace of 06:23.

When I got close to it, there was the first water station, where athletes can rehydrate themselves or just throw it under the body to cooling themselves, but I was a bit shocked with the amount of plastic cups on the floor, seriously, it was A LOT of cups. I don't remember the last time I threw something on the ground, so I didn't get the water at this station, because I knew that if I did, I would hold the cup until the end of the race hahahaha, besides, i felt that was not necessary. So I headed for the 3KM sign.

Keeping the pace, I managed to reach several competitors along the way, some of then were already walking, mainly after the only small climb of the track, which I did at a slower pace, concerning about saving energy.

Before the 4KM sign, I saw a visually impaired competitor at an impressive pace, there is a guy guiding him by a ribbon in his hands. I managed to follow him for a while, but he soon distanced himself. Really impressive.

When I reached 4KM, the first signs of fatigue started, my legs felt heavier, but 80% of the race had completed, so it didn't matter, just focus at the end of race.

When I reached the final 500 meters, I decided to give a final gas, I increased my pace a lot, my heartbeat at this point was around 180BPM, I didn't get to look at the Mi Band, but surely it must have increased to zone 5 around 195 BPM at the end, my pace that at the time it was 06:11 it went down to 05:24 with a 04:21 top! It was very exhausting, but it gaves to me a feeling of hard work after the finish line. I have no idea how some people who managed this pace at an entire race.

![run-pace]

The finish line was at the same point where the start was, the 10K competitors passed straight to make a second lap on the course and the 5K competitors made a U-turn towards the finish line. In this curve, I almost ran over a girl, I apologize the same (if by a coincidence of the universe she reads this post :D). I passed the finish line almost out of breath and with a slight dizziness, but very happy, the first challenge had been accomplished. Time to drink some water, because now there was a trash can nearby hahaha.

## Results

I managed to finish the race with the final time of 31:04, which was within my expectation of 30 to 35 minutes of the race, I think that even unconsciously I did a good race, with a correct pace, even if I was beginner's lucky, hehehe.

![final-results]

That was it folks, now it's about focusing on 10K training and let the next races come on!

![run-finish]